well howdy there internet people let's
bow again so in that last video I
mentioned domestic violence shelters and
as some of you know I read the comments
on the shares and see what people say
one of the comments was I don't
understand why these things exist why
can't women just leave well first it's
not just women
that's domestic violence affects
everybody every race every sex every
gender everybody it affects everybody
every class but it's not as simple as
just leave it is not as simple as just
leaving a lot of the people who get
involved in this fight get involved in
it for personal reasons I happen to know
there is a connection between one of the
people who donated and Yvonne Lopez who
was shot three times in the back of her
head while she was making Christmas
cookies I got involved because my best
friend in high school amber was killed
by her husband while she was just
leaving she becomes part of that
statistic that the Mississippi Coalition
Against Domestic Violence talks about
women are 500 times more likely to be
killed if they're in one of these
relationships when they're just leaving
these organizations these domestic
violence shelters they facilitate that
they they lower that risk dramatically
and they solve a lot of the problems a
lot of the problem people don't even
realize our problems if you're gonna
leave you need money and the abuser
typically controls the finances it's
part of the pattern you may have kids
and that makes finding a place to go
harder you may have pets you can't leave
the pet because the abuser is going to
kill it
there's all of these things that that
play into it and even beyond that you
may have to change jobs the from 2003 to
2008 seventy eight percent of the women
killed at work
by a former or current intimate partner
three quarters about all the ways you
can get murdered at work 3/4 of them
were killed because of domestic violence
domestic violence city huge issue in the
United States 15 percent of all violent
crime is intimate partner violence it's
it's huge one of the organizations that
I am familiar with and that I support is
the shelter shelter House of Northwest
Florida
they're extremely forward-thinking when
they ran across the pet issue well I
guess we need to get a facility to house
the pets go figure you know they just
solve the problem any obstacle that's
standing in the way they get rid of it
and they address the the way people
think about domestic violence as well
years ago they made a t-shirt it was a
tank top and all it said was this is not
a wife-beater did you think about it
it's what they're called you know that
those those white tank tops what's it do
gives the impression that domestic
violence is something that happens to
lower-class people in the projects or in
trailer parks it's not true it happens
to everybody of every socio-economic
class it was their way of kind of
countering that stigma and I thought it
was great so a lot of these networks
they they operate like safehouse
networks they you know woman makes
contact with the abuse makes contact
they roll out pick them up take them to
a secure safe house secure them and then
let them restart their life because in a
lot of ways it's a complete reset and
that's one of the reasons I support them
the way I do the
a lot of people also asked how to get
involved how to donate there's gonna be
a link whatever social media platform
you're seeing this on either in the
description or in the comments there
will be a link in that you'll find a way
to donate to configu whether it be money
which of course they need or an old cell
phone you know if the abuser controls
the finances that cell phone gets cut
off no communication we can make it hard
to get a job can make it hard to contact
those people who do care about you it's
it's something that can be done and in
one of our videos we talked about Bezos
and what he could do if he cared the
same thing odds are you have an old cell
phone sitting in a junk drawer mail it
till they means nothing to you could
save someone's life
another question is you know why can't
they go to a friend's house because the
abused knows the abuser is violent
you're not gonna visit that on your
extended family or friends he's gonna
come looking for you 20% of those people
killed in murder-suicides
are the family member or a friend of
someone suffering intimate work
environments that's why
so shelter house with Northwest Florida
give them a call or look at the link
they also make these kids that are put
in hospitals for rape victims inside the
kit is there's a few things but to me
the most important is there's fresh
clothes you know if you go to a hospital
after being sexually assaulted and
undergoing rape kit now you're in a gown
you don't want to put those other
clothes back on
and these kits can help take a traumatic
experience that it's prolonged by the
medical procedures and help believe it
you need that it's something really
simple but it can mean a lot
and then there's methods to sponsor a
family there there's all kinds of things
there's certainly something for you and
then again this affects everybody it
affects everybody there isn't
there should be no stigma about this and
just remember that normally by the time
the abused calls the police
they've been assaulted 35 times anyway
it's just thought y'all y'all have a
good night